# Constants

There are several variables (I've named them constants, because internally
they're not changed) to configure few things. Every single one of them can work
as is with defaults, however you probably want to configure at least few of
them.

**Important:** Constants always start with `const-` prefix and with `!default`
flag. So your custom configuration values should be defined before the
`dist/esm` import.

### Variables

- [Default Key](#default-key)
- [Preserve Defaults](#preserve-defaults)
- [Relative Units](#relative-units)
- [Template](#template)

### Maps

The following map constants must have specified [default key](#default-key), if
the default key is not present, compilation may not be successful. These maps
can also be completely replaced with new custom definitions by setting
[preserve defaults](#preserve-defaults) constants to `false`.

- [Color](#color)
- [Export](#export)
- [Font](#font)
- [Media](#media)
- [Z-Index](#z-index)

---

## Variables

### Default Key

```scss
$const-default-key: regular;
```

Determines what key in maps is used as default value in functions that make use
of map constants. If you change this value, make sure all the map constants
contain this key as well, otherwise compilation may not be successful
(probably).

[Back to top](#constants)

### Preserve Defaults

```scss
$const-preserve-defaults: true;
```

This constant affects only map constants. When set to `true`, your custom map
configuration will be merged with defaults (your values take precedence over
defaults). If you wish to completely replace default map values with your custom
properties, set this constant to `false`.

[Back to top](#constants)

### Relative Units

```scss
$const-relative-units-enable: false;
```

When enabled, functions [em](https://eterion.github.io/esm-scss/#function-em),
[rem](https://eterion.github.io/esm-scss/#function-rem) and other (all relevant
functions should have mentioned whenever relative units settings affects them)
will recalculate non-relative units to relative values. Resulting value is
calculated relative to `$const-relative-units-root` constant.

#### Additional Settings

- `$const-relative-units-min: 0;` (in pixels) Any value equal or below this
  constant will not be converted to relative units. This applies to the
  [em-always](https://eterion.github.io/esm-scss/#function-em-always) and
  [rem-always](https://eterion.github.io/esm-scss/#function-rem-always)
  functions as well.

- `$const-relative-unit-root: 16px;` (in pixels) Basis for calculation of
  relative units. Your `body` element should have set the same `font-size`
  property (or equivalent).

[Back to top](#constants)

### Template

```scss
$const-template: '{module}';
```

Represents how the selector and z-index properties of imported modules are
created. This is to allow the option to customize selectors generated by
[import](https://eterion.github.io/esm-scss/#mixin-import) mixin. This template
is relevant only when export groups are not used, see additional settings.

#### Replacements

- `{group}` substring represents **key** from `$const-export-group` map item.
- `{id}` substring represents **value** from `$const-export-group` map item.
- `{module}` substring represents module name.

#### Additional Settings

The following templates are relevant only when export groups are used.

- `$const-template-group-selector: '{id}-{module}';` Template for selector.
- `$const-template-group-z-index: '{module}({group})';` Template for z-index
  value.

[Back to top](#constants)

---

## Maps

### Color

Source constants related to
[color](https://eterion.github.io/esm-scss/#function-color) function.

#### Keys

```scss
$const-color-keys: (
  'gray': dimgray,
  'theme': blue,
  'success': green,
  'warn': yellow,
  'err': red,
);
```

List of keyword and color values. You probably want to define your colors here.
The keyword for a color can pretty much anything, including a valid color value
(for example `gray`), the
[color](https://eterion.github.io/esm-scss/#function-color) function takes care
of everything and will always check for color keys before using the actual
color.

#### Scale

```scss
$const-color-scale: (
  'dark': -50,
  'regular': 0,
  'light': 50,
);
```

List of scale keys for the
[color](https://eterion.github.io/esm-scss/#function-color) function, used as
second argument. The number (positive or negative value) represents percentage
lightness relative to the original source color. Internally uses native
[scale-color](http://sass-lang.com/documentation/Sass/Script/Functions.html#scale_color-instance_method)
method.

[Back to top](#constants)

### Export

#### Groups

```scss
$const-export-groups: ();
```

List of group names for export modules, where key represents group name
([template](#template) replacement of `{group}` substring), and value represents
much shorter identificator ([template](#template) replacement of `{id}`
substring).

> More information about how export and import mechanics work [here](export.md).

[Back to top](#constants)

### Font

Source constants related to font functions.

#### Weight

```scss
$const-font-weight-scale: (
  'thin': 100,
  'extralight': 200,
  'ultralight': 200,
  'light': 300,
  'book': 400,
  'normal': 400,
  'regular': 400,
  'roman': 400,
  'medium': 500,
  'semibold': 600,
  'demibold': 600,
  'bold': 700,
  'extrabold': 800,
  'ultrabold': 800,
  'black': 900,
  'heavy': 900,
);
```

List of available keys for the
[font-weight](https://eterion.github.io/esm-scss/#function-font-weight)
function. Note, this function duplicates the
[postcss-font-weight](https://github.com/jonathantneal/postcss-font-weights)
plugin. If you're using this plugin, there's no need to use this function as
well, use the keyword values directly.

[Back to top](#constants)

### Media

Source constants related to media mixins and functions.

#### Direction

```scss
$const-media-direction: 'up';
```

Determines in which direction the media queries are generated. The `'up'` value
indicates that lower scale keys generate media queries identical to scale
values, while higher scale keys generate values with added one pixel. Can be set
to `'down'` to reverse this behavior. This behavior can be disabled by setting
to **false**.

#### Scale

```scss
$const-media-scale: (
  'phone': (
    width: 480px,
    height: 853px,
  ),
  'desktop': (
    width: 1920px,
    height: 1080px,
  ),
);
```

List of media breakpoints. The values can be defined either directly as values
or as map of width and height properties. However, if used as direct values,
some of the media functionality will not be available.

[Back to top](#constants)

### Z-Index

```scss
$const-z-index: ();
```

List of values for the
[z-index](https://eterion.github.io/esm-scss/#mixin-z-index) mixin. Can be a
simple list, or complex map of values. Each value must be unique in the entire
map (only first occurence will be taken into account). Values must follow the
`$const-template` (or `$const-template-group-z-index` if you're using export
groups) [template](#template).

[Back to top](#constants)
