# Constants

There are several variables (I've named them constants, because internally
they're not changed) to configure few things. Every single one of them can work
as is with default value, however you probably want to configure at least few of
them.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
::: tip
Constants always start with `const-` prefix and with `!default` flax. So you custom configuration should be defined before the `dist/esm` import.
:::

## Variables

### Default Key

- Type: `string`

```scss
$const-default-key: regular;
```

Determines what key in maps is used as the default value in functions that make
use of map constants. If you change this value, make sure all the
[map constants](#maps) contain this key as well, otherwise compilation may not
be successful (probably).

### Media Query Direction

Type: `down | up | false`

```scss
$const-mq-direction: up;
```

Determines in what direction the generated media queries take priority. This
constant affects all media mixins (can be set individually via parameter) and is
dependent on [media scale](#media) map.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
::: warning
This behavior can be disabled by setting `$const-mq-direction: false`. This also means your media queries may overlap (depends on your use), and mess up things on very specific resolutions.
:::

| Value  | Description                                                                                                                  |
| ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `down` | Higher media scale take priority over lower ones, meaning `max` value of lower scale is always one pixel lower than defined. |
| `up`   | Exact opposite of `down` behavior.                                                                                           |

### Preserve Defaults

Type: `boolean`

```scss
$const-preserve-defaults: true;
```

This constant affects only [map constants](#maps). When set to `true`, you
custom map configuration will be merged with defaults (your values take
precedence over defaults). If you wish to completely replace default map values
with your own, set this constants to `false`.

### Relative Units

Type: `number`

```scss
$const-relative-units-enable: false;
```

When enabled, function **em**, **rem** and other (all relevant function shuold
have mentioned whenever relative units settings affects them) will recalculate
non-relative units to relative values (if possible). Resulting value is
calculated relative to `$const-relative-units-root` constant.

#### Additional Settings

- `$const-relative-units-min: 0;` (in pixels) Any value equal or belo this
  constant will not be converted to relative units. This applies to the
  **em-always** and **rem-always** functions as well.

- `$const-relative-unit-root: 16px;` (in pixels) Basis for calculation of
  relative units. Your `body` element should have set the same `font-size`
  property (or quivalent).

### Template

- Type: `string`

```scss
$const-template: '{module}';
```

Represents how the selector and z-index properties of imported modules are
created. This is to allow customization of selectors generated by **import**
mixin. This template is relevant only when export groups are not used, see
additional settings.

#### Replacements

- `{group}` substring represents **key** from `$const-export-group` map item.
- `{id}` substring represents **value** from `$const-export-group` map item.
- `{module}` substring represents module name.

#### Additional Settings

The following templates are relevant only when export groups are used.

- `$const-template-group-selector: '{id}-{module}';` Template for selector.
- `$const-template-group-z-index: '{module}({group})';` Template for z-index
  value.

## Maps

The following map constants must have specified [default key](#default-key). If
the default key is not present, compilation may not be successful. These maps
can also be completely replaced with new custom definitions by setting
[preserve defaults](#preserve-defaults) constant to `false`.

### Color

Source constants related to **color** function.

#### Keys

```scss
$const-color-keys: (
  'gray': dimgray,
  'theme': blue,
  'success': green,
  'warn': yellow,
  'err': red,
);
```

List of keyword and color values. You probably want to define your colors here.
The keyword for a color can pretty much anything, including a valid color value
(for example `gray`), the **color** function takes care of everything and will
always check for color keys before using the actual color.

#### Scale

```scss
$const-color-scale: (
  'dark': -50,
  'regular': 0,
  'light': 50,
);
```

List of scale keys for the **color** function, used as second argument. The
number (positive or negative value) represents percentage lightness relative to
the original source color. Internally uses native
[scale-color](http://sass-lang.com/documentation/Sass/Script/Functions.html#scale_color-instance_method)
method.

### Export

Constants for export mechanics.

#### Groups

```scss
$const-export-groups: ();
```

List of group names for export modules, where key represents group name
([template](#template) replacement of `{group}` substring), and value represents
much shorter identificator ([template](#template) replacement of `{id}`
substring).

### Font

Source constants related to font functions.

#### Weight

```scss
$const-font-weight-scale: (
  'thin': 100,
  'extralight': 200,
  'ultralight': 200,
  'light': 300,
  'book': 400,
  'normal': 400,
  'regular': 400,
  'roman': 400,
  'medium': 500,
  'semibold': 600,
  'demibold': 600,
  'bold': 700,
  'extrabold': 800,
  'ultrabold': 800,
  'black': 900,
  'heavy': 900,
);
```

List of available keys for the **font-weight** function. Note, this function
duplicates the
[postcss-font-weight](https://github.com/jonathantneal/postcss-font-weights)
plugin. If you're using this plugin, there's no need to use this function as
well, use the keyword values directly.

### Media

Source constants related to media mixins and functions.

#### Scale

```scss
$const-media-scale: (
  'phone': (
    width: 480px,
    height: 853px,
  ),
  'desktop': (
    width: 1920px,
    height: 1080px,
  ),
);
```

List of media breakpoints. The values can be defined either directly as values
or as map of width and height properties. However, if used as direct values,
some of the media functionality will not be available.

### Z-Index

```scss
$const-z-index: ();
```

List of values for the **z-index** mixin. Can be a simple list, or complex map
of values. Each value must be unique in the entire map (only first occurence
will be taken into account). Values must follow the `$const-template` (or
`$const-template-group-z-index` if you're using export groups)
[template](#template).
